### Programming paradigms
- A programming paradigm is a way of thinking about and structuring a program's functionality. Programming paradigms differ from one another, for example in how the program's execution and control are defined and what components the programs consist of.
- Most programming languages ​​that are currently in use support multiple programming paradigms. Part of a programmer's growth involves the ability, through experience, to choose the appropriate programming language and paradigm; there currently is no single ubiquitous programming language and programming paradigm.

- The most common programming paradigms today are object-oriented programming, procedural programming, and functional programming.

## Object-Oriented Programming

In object-oriented programming, information is represented as classes that describe the concepts of the problem domain and the logic of the application. Classes define the methods that determine how information is handled. During program execution, objects are instantiated from classes that contain runtime information and that also have an effect on program execution: program execution typically proceeds through a series of method calls related to the objects. "the program is built from small, clear, and cooperative entities."

- The basic ideas of object-oriented programming, i.e., the representation of information and its processing methods with he help of classes and objects, first appeared in Simula 67, which was designed for developing simulations and the Smalltalk programming language. Its breakthrough came in the 1980s through the C++ programming language and Java has made it one of the most widely used programming paradigms in the world.
- The object-oriented paradigm is characterized by the use of classes and objects. In object-oriented programming, an object is an instance of a class. A class is a template for an object. An object has its own data, called attributes, and methods, which are functions that operate on the object's data. Objects can interact with one another by passing messages, which are requests to perform an action on an object. The object-oriented paradigm is characterized by the use of classes and objects. In object-oriented programming, an object is an instance of a class. A class is a template for an object. An object has its own data, called attributes, and methods, which are functions that operate on the object's data. Objects can interact with one another by passing messages, which are requests to perform an action on an object.